10 track changes to my files (#12)
empa-scientific-it/how-to-git: tutorial.md

In this tutorial, we will start with editing a text file using the web browser, so you won't need to write any code - you can simply use the appropriate buttons.

### Change files
To modify a file in the web browser, start by opening the repository and clicking on the file you've added for tracking changes.
At the top-right corner you will see a small pencil icon :pencil2: labeled `Edit this file`.
By clicking on it, a text editor window will open, where you can begin making changes.

It is a common best practice to always write only one sentence per line.
This makes it easier for reviewers to provide feedback, but there are also [other good reasons](https://sive.rs/1s) to follow this approach.

> [!TIP]
> To write inside the text editor, you use Markdown for formatting, along with some HTML tags.
> More information can be found [here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/quickstart-for-writing-on-github#introduction).
> It's an easy syntax to learn, but not crucial for this tutorial.

### Commit changes

> Everyone is familiar with saving a file, after is has been modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everyone is familiar with saving a file after is has been modified.
```

In Git, however, you don’t simply save the file - instead, you commit the changes to track what was modified.

To commit a change after you have modified the file, you can use the button `Commit Changes` in the web browser.

> Clicking on it will open a dialouge with different fields to fill:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking on it will open a dialogue window with different fields to fill:
```

- **Commit message**: Give a name to your changes - later you will be able to search for them.
- **Extended description**: If needed, give more detailed information.
- Commit directly to the *any name* branch: For now choose this.
- Create a **new branch** for this commit and start a pull request: Branching out will be described further [down](#branching-out-topics).
- Agree by clicking on `Commit changes` again.

### Check the history

> You can check all sorts of changes in git: from files, from repository, from the whole repository network.
> 1. To check the history of the file you just have modified, you open the file from your repository.
> On the top right, next to the edit button, you will also find an clock Icon next to :clock4:`History`.
> It will open up the history of commits showing the previously chosen Commit message, the author of the the Commit and the [Sha](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/committing-changes-to-your-project/creating-and-editing-commits/about-commits#about-commits), which is an unique ID for a commit within Git.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Git, you can view all kinds of changes - whether for a single file, the entire repository, or even across the full network of repositories.
1. To check the **history of the file** you just modified, open that file in your repository.
At the top-right corner, above the edit button, you will find a clock icon labeled :clock4:`History`.
Clicking it will open the history of commits, showing the commit message, the author of the commit and the [SHA](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/committing-changes-to-your-project/creating-and-editing-commits/about-commits#about-commits), which is a unique identifier for each commit within Git.
```
